# Changelog

All notable changes to the "ESP32 project manager" extension will be documented in this file.

**Note:** The format of this changelog is based on [Keep a Changelog](https://keepachangelog.com/en/1.0.0/),
which adheres to [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org/spec/v2.0.0.html).

## [Unreleased]
<!-- ## [0.1.0] - YYYY-MM-DD -->

[Repository](https://github.com/mrverdant13/esp32-idf-vsc-extension)

### Added:

- `ESP32-PM: Register ESP-IDF API` command (register the path of a folder that contains an ESP-IDF API).
- `ESP32-PM: Register Espressif Toolchain` command (register the path of a folder that contains an Espressif Toolchain).
- `ESP32-PM: Create project` command (create a new ESP32 project).
- `ESP32-PM: Menuconfig` command (run the `make menuconfig` command, which shows the configuration interface for a ESP32 project).
- `ESP32-PM: Defconfig` command (run the `make defconfig` command, which applies the default configuration values defined in the `sdkconfig.defaults` file).
- `ESP32-PM: Build project` command (run the `make -j all` command, which builds the previously selected project source).
- `ESP32-PM: Flash` command (run the `make flash` command, which flashes a built project using a previously selected serial port).
- `ESP32-PM: Monitor` command (run the `make monitor` command, which opens a terminal using a previously selected serial port).
- `ESP32-PM: Flash & Monitor` command (run the `make flash monitor` command, which flashes a built project and opens a terminal using a previously selected serial port).
- `ESP32-PM: Clean` command (run the `make clean` command, which removes built files).
- `ESP32-PM: Remove auto-generated files` command (remove files auto-generated by this extension).