<!-- ** DOCUMENTATION STEPS ** -->
<!-- STEP1: Update README.md -->
<!-- STEP2: Update CHANGELOG.md -->

<!-- ** PUBLISHING STEPS ** -->
<!-- STEP1: Update version in the Features section of the README.md file -->
<!-- STEP2: Change the [Unreleased] section by the version section of the CHANGELOG.md file and update its repository link -->
<!-- STEP3: Add a version comparisson link to the CHANGELOG.md file -->
<!-- STEP4: Update version in the "version" field of the package.json file -->

<!-- TODO: Add MSYS32_PATH and IDF_PATH existence checking for projects. -->
<!-- TODO: Add a 'make clean' command execution command. -->

# ESP32 project manager for Visual Studio Code

ESP32 project manager for Visual Studio Code. Setup, build, flash and monitor ESP32 applications.

----------

## Features (v0.1.0)

- Standard project structure for the use of this extension.\
This project structure allows the use of more than one application program or 'sub-project' that may have more than one entry point.\
The project structure is as follows:

>project (Project folder)
>- .gitignore (Git file) [Tracked by Git]
>- Makefile (ESP32 Makefile file) [Tracked by Git]
>- sdkconfig (ESP32 config file) [Ignored by Git]
>- sdkconfig.defaults (ESP32 default config values file) [Tracked by Git]
>- sdkconfig.old (Previous ESP32 config file) [Ignored by Git]
>>.vscode (VSC config folder)
>>- .gitignore (Git file) [Tracked by Git]
>>- browse.c_cpp.db* (VSC database files) [Ignored by Git]
>>- c_cpp_properties.json (VSC C/C++ config file) [Ignored by Git]
>>- settings.json (VSC workspace config file) [Ignored by Git]
>
>>build (ESP32 generated files when building) [Ignored by Git]
>
>>components (ESP32 user-defined components folder)
>>- .gitignore (Git file) [Tracked by Git]
>
>>main (ESP32 application container)
>>- .gitignore (Git file) [Tracked by Git]
>>- component.mk (ESP32-PM generated main pseudo-component makefile) [Ignored by Git]
>>- main.cpp (ESP32-PM generated  main entry point) [Ignored by Git]
>>>src (ESP32-PM sub-projects container)
>>>>sub_project_1 (ESP32-PM sub-project application container)
>>>>- main_1_sub_proj_1 (ESP32-PM sub-project entry point) [Tracked by Git]
>>>>- main_..._sub_proj_1 (ESP32-PM sub-project entry point) [Tracked by Git]
>>>>- main_n_sub_proj_1 (ESP32-PM sub-project entry point) [Tracked by Git]
>>>
>>>>sub_project_... (ESP32-PM sub-project application container)
>>>>- main_1_sub_proj_... (ESP32-PM sub-project entry point) [Tracked by Git]
>>>>- main_...\_sub_proj\_... (ESP32-PM sub-project entry point) [Tracked by Git]
>>>>- main_n_sub_proj_... (ESP32-PM sub-project entry point) [Tracked by Git]
>>>
>>>>sub_project_m (ESP32-PM sub-project application container)
>>>>- main_1_sub_proj_m (ESP32-PM sub-project entry point) [Tracked by Git]
>>>>- main_..._sub_proj_m (ESP32-PM sub-project entry point) [Tracked by Git]
>>>>- main_n_sub_proj_m (ESP32-PM sub-project entry point) [Tracked by Git]

### Supported OS

- **Linux** (tested on **Linux Mint**)
- **Windows** (tested in **Windows 7** and **Windows 10**)

### Commands

- `ESP32-PM: Create project` [ **Windows**, **Linux** ]: Create a new ESP32 project.
- `ESP32-PM: Set ESP-IDF API folder` [ **Windows**, **Linux** ]: Set the ESP-IDF API folder to be used with the active project.
- `ESP32-PM: Set 'msys32' folder` [ **Windows** ]: Set the 'msys32' folder to be used with the active project.
- `ESP32-PM: Set 'xtensa-esp32-elf' folder` [ **Linux** ]: Set the 'xtensa-esp32-elf' folder to be used with the active project.
- `ESP32-PM: Defconfig` [ **Windows**, **Linux** ]: Run the `make defconfig` command, which applies the default configuration values defined in the `sdkconfig.defaults` file.
- `ESP32-PM: Menuconfig` [ **Windows**, **Linux** ]: Run the `make menuconfig` command, which shows the configuration interface for a ESP32 project.
- `ESP32-PM: Build` [ **Windows**, **Linux** ]: Run the `make -j all` command, which builds the active sub-project using the active file as its entry point.
- `ESP32-PM: Flash` [ **Windows**, **Linux** ]: Run the `make flash` command, which flashes a built sub-project using a previously selected serial port.
- `ESP32-PM: Monitor` [ **Windows**, **Linux** ]: Run the `make monitor` command, which opens a terminal using a previously selected serial port.
- `ESP32-PM: Flash & Monitor` [ **Windows**, **Linux** ]: Run the `make flash monitor` command, which flashes a built sub-project and opens a terminal using a previously selected serial port.
<!-- - `ESP32-PM: Clean` [**Windows**]: Run the `make clean` command, which removes built files. -->
<!-- - `ESP32-PM: Remove auto-generated files` [**Windows**]: Remove files auto-generated by this extension. -->

----------

## Requirements

### For Windows

The following elements are required to be previously obtained:

1. The [Espressif 'msys32' folder](https://dl.espressif.com/dl/esp32_win32_msys2_environment_and_toolchain-20190611.zip) unzziped in a folder located in a path with no spaces.
2. The ESP-IDF by cloning [its repository](https://github.com/espressif/esp-idf) recursively (git clone --recursive \<repo\>) in a folder located in a path with no spaces. You could use any version.

### For Linux

The following elements are required to be previously obtained:

1. Installing the [prerequisites to compile with the ESP-IDF in Linux](https://docs.espressif.com/projects/esp-idf/en/latest/get-started-legacy/linux-setup.html#install-prerequisites).
3. The Espressif 'xtensa-esp32-elf' folder for [64-bit architecture](https://dl.espressif.com/dl/xtensa-esp32-elf-gcc8_2_0-esp32-2019r1-linux-amd64.tar.gz) or [32-bit architecture](https://dl.espressif.com/dl/xtensa-esp32-elf-gcc8_2_0-esp32-2019r1-linux-i686.tar.gz) unzziped in a folder located in a path with no spaces.
3. The ESP-IDF by cloning [its repository](https://github.com/espressif/esp-idf) recursively (git clone --recursive \<repo\>) in a folder located in a path with no spaces. You could use any version.

----------

## Usage

After meeting the requirements and installing this extension, you could follow the steps below:

### 1. Create a new project:
- Create a new project with the `ESP32-PM: Create project`.

### 2. Set important folders for the project:
- Set the ESP-IDF API folder with the `ESP32-PM: Set ESP-IDF API folder` command.
- For **Windows**, set the 'msys32' folder with the `ESP32-PM: Set 'msys32' folder` command.
- For **Linux**, set the 'xtensa-esp32-elf' folder with the `ESP32-PM: Set 'xtensa-esp32-elf' folder` command.

### 3. Build, flash, monitor and clean regular `make` commands:
These commands are often used with ESP32 projects based on GNU Make. They can be used with their corresponding extension command as long as the current workspace is an ESP32-PM project.

----------

## Known Issues

[Known issues](https://github.com/mrverdant13/esp32-pm-vsc-extension/issues).

----------

## Changelog

[Changelog](https://github.com/mrverdant13/esp32-pm-vsc-extension/blob/develop/CHANGELOG.md).